In this video, we're going to be giving our animals some eyes.
I've got a cat eyeball texture that I've crafted that I will share with you so you can use that if you're
also making a cat.
Otherwise, go find yourself a texture online that you think matches.
We going to do this in a very simple way.
It's not going to be overly complex because.
Well, for me anyway, my camera's going to be way back here, so I'm not really going to see the detail
on the eye.
So I'm not putting a huge amount of effort into it.
Now, you say I've already dropped this fear into my scene here, which I'll talk about a little bit
more in a moment.
But the reason I've dropped it in here is so I can show you that it's a little bit terrible around my
eye socket.
You see my cat over on the side here.
It's nice and crisp.
It's got a proper kind of eyelid type thing and a proper recessing within the eye.
Full disclosure, I probably should have been working having the eyeball in when I was sculpting so
I could see how that area was working.
So I apologize for not doing that.
That's one of the things we can learn as we go that woops, I forgot to put the eyeball in there and
now it's a little bit mushy because I didn't pay attention to that.
But if you do want to go in, tighten this up a little bit, it's often easier to jump into edit mode,
not on the eyeball, Rick.
On the cat jumping the edit mode when you're on your animal and then add some extra geometry in edit
mode rather than trying to sculpt it because we've already remade and we've already put on our hair.
Things can go a little bit.
Blender complains a little bit if we're trying to mush things around at this point by sculpting.
But if we jump in edit mode, gonna grab my knife to K and remember Wolf for this anyway, I'm not looking
for pretty geometry.
If we were to Rita apologizes, I would do it very differently.
But at this stage, I'm just looking to add some more detail.
So using the knife tool, it entered a close that off.
Where else would we want a little bit more?
Probably a little bit stronger along here.
So like I say, this is not topology or geometry that I would win any awards for, but it's allowing
me to get a little bit more complexity, a little bit more pushing and pulling when I'm going to be
manipulating my eyeball.
So you might want to go and put a little bit more love around your eye socket trying to create some
rings here.
That might make sense.
And then one more.
Along here, just fast and loose at the moment.
Just to get some extra jump trees.
So I did want to pull this out.
Let me just hop into pushing one.
You know what?
I might grab these faces, pushing three.
Grab a few of these faces just to make a stronger eyebrow.
Gee, and then constrained to why I think I won't just put out a little bit like that.
There you go.
Not too much.
Just a little bit g y.
Little bit out there.
I've got proportional editing on.
That's why things moved.
Not just those faces.
So proportional editing is often our friend at this stage.
And then of course we need to mirror.
So we're seeing on both sides.
So let me just show you this and a little bit more detail.
I've added in a sphere, so shift a you guys know how to add a sphere by now.
Find yourself a UVAs fear not in edit mode though.
Sorry, object mode.
So shift a mesh.
You've a sphere scale that get it into the right position and rotate on the x axis 90.
So I do like to have the circles facing to the front like this.
The face at the front and the mirror around.
Move it around and get it into the eye socket.
So you guys have seen me do that sort of stuff a bunch.
We don't need to see it exactly again.
Then you might want to play around a little bit with your eyebrow, get it looking the way you want
and the inside of your eye.
We need to do now and here.
We could probably push that in a little bit more jump into render view so you can see how this looks
in terms of how we're doing.
The hair looking, looking.
Okay.
Little bit of boldness just around the inside of the the hair where the eyeball is.
So that might be something that we need to address.
But for now, like I've said, I'm gonna be cameras give me way back here.
So it might not be that noticeable, but I'll be putting a little bit of time and effort off camera.
I think mostly just updating the eye socket and having it look good.
One thing you might notice at this point is that your hair or your particle systems has gone a little
bit crazy.
And that's because we're changing the geometry, changing the mesh and the hair particle system is really
like that.
I've got weird whiskers that I will be addressing in the next video, I think, and also obviously make
sure that you have painted the weights so that your particle system is behaving the way you want it
to do around the eyeballs.
But let's get back to the main thing we're here for, which is the eyeball.
And I have a challenge for you.
And challenge is going to be to let your animals see, obviously at an eye if your animal.
So we've gone and added our sphere just now.
Start with that sphere shape at scale it place at all.
That kind of good stuff flatten out a little bit at the front as we've done.
We've worked on our human heads at a at an eye texture, which is the important part here.
And like I said, I'm just slapping that texture right over the top.
I'm not trying to have the geometry match the texture.
So Cats Eye has more of a slip up and down.
I'm going to leave my geometry on the sphere as it is and not worry about the fact this is not lining
up exactly with that geometry.
That's all good.
So any challenge, if you want to do that and jump in and add the texture to your eye.
Go ahead and do that.
And I'll see you back here when you done.
And I'll go through the rest of the process for myself, adding the texture to the eye.
Okay, C.C., I've already got my UVA window, sir, down yonder we've got UVA Ed and I've also already
got my Qader Ed. They're the two we're interested in.
Let's click on Material View so we can see what's going on.
I'm clicked on the eyes.
Perfect.
Jumped down to material properties, actually gonna to hide the cat for the moment.
What I want to do is just find where abouts the ring.
And so it's just on that.
That's the first one second one.
Third one.
And just on the fourth one, which I may want to trim, that's I'm not actually seeing the fourth one.
So we'll say that our texture is gonna be one, two, three rings.
Now we can hide the cat and jump into edit mode C for selecting and selects three.
Right.
Click first of all, three and then see.
Okay, selecting faces C on our two.
We've got the first ring, the second ring and the third ring selected.
Looks decent enough when how you've unwrapped it actually at the same time looks pretty terrible.
So you've are right.
Click to exit that you v smart you the project and then.
Okay.
So I can pretty.
Pretty.
Now I need to make myself a texture so click on the material properties.
Click on plus.
Oh we could we just clicked on new and double click.
Will name this two eyes into a click a sign.
Now we need to go in and find ourselves something to actually put in there.
So over in our shader editor, I'm going to shift a I like to search for things.
I'm just gonna type in texture and then I'm looking for image texture.
Add that into place.
Sorry.
If you're having trouble seeing this, Mike, give ourselves a bit more room.
Connect colour with base colour.
It should go black.
Has now we don't have a base colour.
I'm going to click on Open because I want to find an image from my computer and I have a cat I.
J.
Peg.
I'll open that up and you can see it's brought in this image.
This is the texture that I'm working with, the image I'm working with.
You should go find your own or make your own or are crafted or grab it from somewhere you can use mine
if you want.
I've made that available for you and you can see it comes in rotated.
Don't worry about all the nonsense around the back because we're not going to see that being a little
bit like as a fast and Lucier things we're never gonna see.
Does matter.
We can leave it easy.
So as I was babbling, I've selected my in my Yuva editor here.
I've selected all of my use.
These are to rotate and rotate the cat eye slits until they are vertical.
Right, that looks pretty good.
Now it's going to quickly pop.
Turn the cat back on.
Okay.
You can see this little bit of a bit on the outside that I need to attend to.
Now, the pupil is larger than I'd like to like it to be.
So just a little mini challenge for you here.
How do you think we can change just the size of this black area on the pupil and not the rest of our
texture just to make that inside a bit smaller without making our line here change?
Okay.
Well, if you thought that if we jump back into our EUV, Ed hit three, select the middle center part
is to scale and scale that.
Let's see.
Not in, but out, out, out.
You can see that it gets a little bit of distortion has made it thinner, which is what I wanted.
Now, if we look at our cat reference images, it's more of that thinness.
You can see the eye in the background there is very thin.
It looks like it goes all the way from top to bottom.
That's a similar sort of nearly top to bottom over there.
So this is looking a little bit more the way I like it.
Honestly, it looks a bit creepy because I'm used to looking at human heads and it's not perfect.
So you can see we don't have perfect geometry.
They have a little bit of that bump on the inside.
If I was up closer, I would need to put a little bit more love into how I'm the geometry on the eyeball
to make the relationship between our UVB mapping and the actual texture look closer.
But because we're gonna be backyard, I think we're going to see that little bump.
So I'm letting that go.
But just want to flag to that.
It's not a great workflow.
If we were up closer, we would notice that I've got a little bit of an issue around the outside.
I'm just going to move around my mesh off screen so you don't have to watch me doing it.
I'll be back in a moment.
Let's do a little bit of a play around here to see what we want in terms of specular and metalic.
I'll do it more specular, more shiny.
Now, again, if we weren't really close, we would see that there's specular and shiny on our black
pupil and they've got that little bumpy indent part there because we don't have perfect geometry.
That's all fine.
I just want to get the general ballpark of how it should look at the moment.
There is specular tend to be metallic.
Probably not.
And a little bit less roughness, and I'm going to darken the eye and add a little bit of coloring to
it.
So we're back over in our Shada Ed shift.
The texture and the base color.
Then I'll hook up my other color into color.
Apologies from bazooms out here.
So we're going to go in the Greaney yellowy sphere and click on Dorkin.
So we're not doing anything weird to the black area in there.
So it's a little bit darker.
It's kind of getting in the ballpark.
It's a little bit tough to see when I don't have the full light shining on it.
So let's look at our render view.
We'll play around with it here.
It's still looking very bright, isn't it?
These bright green eyes.
So make it even darker with the color that we're adding.
Darker, darker, darker.
And until I get to the point where I'm happy, it might be a little bit too much specular on here.
Luby Too much specular tint.
And in terms of the darkness of the eyes, not too bad, I think the last piece for me to make them
look less beedi had them more recessed into the actual head itself and have the sockets or the eyebrows
protruding over.
So the color I'm okay with for the moment.
And I'm just gonna play around with the positioning a little bit more.
But that essentially is it.
We've given ourselves some eyeballs and we've placed them into our cat so I can deliver positioning
off camera.
And I'll show you how it ends up when I've positioned it.
Okay.
It's not perfect, but it's generally where I want it to be for the distance where you'd be looking
at it.
You can see I put a little bit more Eyebrow Ridge in their position.
The eyes turn on our material mode here.
It looks a little bit dark.
And when I do a rindo, when I'm in render view and we hop back to probably where I'm gonna have the
cat, then you can see it definitely looks like eyes are roughly in the right position and you can see
that they're slits.
So I'm going to call this done for the moment.
If you wanna put more finesse and love and precision in yours, that would be amazing.
But for now, this is good for mine.
So I hope you've gone okay with your eyes and I'll see you in the next lecture.